Editorial follow-up from 1601 (#1688)
httpwg/http-extensions: draft-ietf-httpbis-priority.md

resolved and definition of a HTTP/3 priority signalling feature was removed
before publication.

> RFC 7540 priorities were specific to a HTTP/2 connection and could not be
> conveyed with prior versions of HTTP.  That, along with the complexity, meant
> intermediaries could not convey the priority information to backends.

Reviewer: could not or could not easily?

That answer depends on the nature the assets being requested, the intermediary and the backend. For instance, where a backend is in the same adiministrative domain, pretty much anything is possible. For example, https://developers.cloudflare.com/workers/runtime-apis/request#properties describes the `request.cf.requestPriority` object that is available in on type of context.

So I think maybe what we mean is that there is/was no standard format for exchanging RFC 7540 priority information in prior versions of HTTP (or inded newer versions). Therefore I might turn this paragraph around like so

```suggestion
Intermediaries can convert HTTP/2 to other versions of HTTP. HTTP/2 priority signals are specific to a connection and there is no standard definition for converting them to a format suitable for other versions. Therefore, a motivating factor for replacing RFC 7540 stream priority is to choose a signalling mechanism that is more accomodating of intermediaries.
```

resolved and definition of a HTTP/3 priority signalling feature was removed
before publication.

Intermediaries can convert HTTP/2 to other versions of HTTP. HTTP/2 priority
signals are specific to a connection and there is no standard definition for
converting them to a format suitable for other versions. Therefore, a
motivating factor for replacing RFC 7540 stream priority is to choose a
signalling mechanism that is more accomodating of intermediaries.

> 

Reviewer 2: I think I understand the intent of this paragraph but I'm not sure if it's entirely accurate. As stated in the paragraph above (starting from line 154), there is a standard way of coalescing HTTP/2 priority trees into one.

Maybe something like: _HTTP/2 priority signal of an HTTP request is expressed as a value relative to that of other requests sharing the same connection and therefore it is impossible to express priority signals without the knowledge of how the requests are coalesced_?

Separately, as this would be a problem statement, I think it might make sense to move before the paragraph right above this one, because we continue to say "Considering the problems (snip) and the difficulties in adapting it to HTTP/3..."

Reviewer: You're right that H2-to-H2 can work. However, Ian's previous text said versions prior to HTTP/2. I was trying to be clever and use "other versions" to mean HTTP/1.1 and HTTP/3. There is no way to map RFC 7540 style priorities to H3, we gave up on that as noted in the paragraph above. I would say the prime motivation for giving up in H3 was not intermediary complication, which your suggested reordering might imply.

Reviewer 2: Thanks, I see. I think my concerns are:
* The paragraph proposed is a mixture of problem statement and solution. That does not fit well into the current structure of the section that writes down the problems and then explaining the solution in the final paragraph below. I think we'd better cut down this paragraph to a problem statement, at the same time adding text to the final paragraph of the section to explain why the particular solution was chosen (if necessary).
* As a problem statement, I'm not sure if it suites the most to state that the problem about intermediaries. The insight that we have is that the crux of the problem is that Semantics does not have the concept of a "connection." Not only intermediaries but also HTTP client library API suffer from the problem. I'm fine with using intermediaries as an example.

So maybe something like: _HTTP/2 priority signal of an HTTP request is expressed as a value relative to that of other requests sharing the same HTTP/2 connection. Such design requires the understanding of the underlying protocol version and how the requests are coalesced in order to use priority signals. This has been a burden to HTTP endpoints that generate or forward requests at the HTTP Semantic layer._

Author: I'm happy with whatever you two prefer.
